Initial version of GKE Autopilot documentation. (#6760)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/advanced-topics/gke-autopilot.asciidoc

      containers:
        - name: sleep
          image: docker.io/bash:5.2.15
          command: ['sleep', 'infinity']
EOF
----

. Create an Elasticsearch cluster.
+
[source,shell,subs="attributes,+macros"]
----
cat $$<<$$EOF | kubectl apply -n elastic -f -
apiVersion: elasticsearch.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: Elasticsearch
metadata:
  name: elasticsearch-sample
spec:
  version: {version}
  nodeSets:
  - name: default
    count: 1
    # Only uncomment the below section if you are not using the previous Daemonset to set max_map_count.
    # config:
    #  node.store.allow_mmap: false
    podTemplate:
      spec:
        # This init container ensures that the `max_map_count` setting has been applied before starting Elasticsearch.
        # This is not required, but is encouraged when using the previous Daemonset to set max_map_count.
        # Do not use this if setting config.node.store.allow_mmap: false
        initContainers:
        - name: max-map-count-check
          command: ['sh', '-c', "while true; do mmc=$(cat /proc/sys/vm/max_map_count); if [ ${mmc} -eq 262144 ]; then exit 0; fi; sleep 1; done"]
EOF
----

[id="{p}-autopilot-deploy-kibana"]

> == Deploy a Kibana instance

Reviewer: nit: I think that as a user I would wonder why Kibana is mentioned, and not the other Stack components.

Reviewer 2: Why are we basically repeating the quickstart example her if there is no substantial difference for Autopilot?

Reviewer: 👍 , I think I would remove that section.

:page_id: autopilot 
ifdef::env-github[]
****
link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/master/k8s-{page_id}.html[View this document on the Elastic website]
****
endif::[]
[id="{p}-{page_id}"]
= Deploy ECK on GKE Autopilot

This page shows how to run ECK on GKE Autopilot.

* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-the-operator>>
* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-elasticsearch>>
* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-kibana>>
* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-agent>>

[float]
[id="{p}-autopilot-setting-virtual-memory"]
== Ensuring virtual memory kernel settings

If you are intending to run production workloads on GKE Autopilot then `vm.max_map_count` should be set. The only way to set this kernal setting on the Autopilot hosts is with a `Daemonset` as described in the <<{p}-virtual-memory>> section. You must be running at least version 1.25 when on the `regular` channel or using the `rapid` channel, which currently runs version 1.26.

CAUTION: Only use the provided `Daemonset` exactly as specified or it could be rejected by the Autopilot control plane.

[id="{p}-autopilot-deploy-the-operator"]
== Deploying the ECK Operator

. Refer to <<{p}-installing-eck>> for more information on installation options.

> . Create a namespace to hold the Elastic resources ({eck_resources_list}):

Reviewer 2: Why are we including instructions to install the operator here that are identical to our regular instructions? What is the purpose of the instruction to create a dedicated namespace? is this an Autopilot requirement (I assume not)

Reviewer: > I'm following our example laid out in openshift.asciidoc where we also discuss installing the operator.

I think OpenShift is bit "special" in the sense that OpenShift users always create a "project" using `oc new-project` before creating other resources. That's why I added the `oc new-project elastic` in the case of OpenShift.

Author: Removed all references to creating a namespace and defaulted to the default namespace.

+
[source,shell]
----
kubectl create namespace elastic
----

[id="{p}-autopilot-deploy-elasticsearch"]
== Deploy an Elasticsearch instance

> Create an Elasticsearch cluster. If you are using the `Daemonset` described in the <<{p}-virtual-memory>> section to set `max_map_count` ensure that the `initContainer` below is also used to ensure the setting prior to starting Elasticsearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an Elasticsearch cluster. If you are using the `Daemonset` described in the <<{p}-virtual-memory>> section to set `max_map_count` you can add the `initContainer` below to ensure the setting is set prior to starting Elasticsearch.
```

[source,shell,subs="attributes,+macros"]
----
cat $$<<$$EOF | kubectl apply -n elastic -f -
apiVersion: elasticsearch.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: Elasticsearch
metadata:
  name: elasticsearch-sample
spec:
  version: {version}
  nodeSets:
  - name: default
    count: 1
    # Only uncomment the below section if you are not using the Daemonset to set max_map_count.
    # config:
    #  node.store.allow_mmap: false
    podTemplate:
      spec:
        # This init container ensures that the `max_map_count` setting has been applied before starting Elasticsearch.

>         # This is not required, but is encouraged when using the previous Daemonset to set max_map_count.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # This is not required, but is encouraged when using the previously mentioned Daemonset to set max_map_count.
```
?

:page_id: autopilot 
ifdef::env-github[]
****
link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/master/k8s-{page_id}.html[View this document on the Elastic website]
****
endif::[]
[id="{p}-{page_id}"]
= Deploy ECK on GKE Autopilot

This page shows how to run ECK on GKE Autopilot.

* <<{p}-autopilot-before-you-begin>>
* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-the-operator>>
* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-elasticsearch>>
* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-kibana>>

[float]
[id="{p}-autopilot-before-you-begin"]
== Before you begin

. Ensure you are running a supported version of Kubernetes within Autopilot.

> +

Author: I think it was missing "float", but I've removed it. Strange it wasn't showing up my preview pane, but was showing up like this when actually generating the docs.

apiVersion: agent.k8s.elastic.co/v1alpha1
kind: Agent
metadata:
  name: elastic-agent
spec:
  version: {version}
  elasticsearchRefs:
    name: "elasticsearch-sample"
  daemonSet:
    podTemplate:
      spec:
        volumes:
        - name: "agent-data"
          ephemeral:
            volumeClaimTemplate:
              spec:
                accessModes: [ "ReadWriteOnce" ]
                storageClassName: "e2e-default"
                resources:
                  requests:
                    storage: 10Gi
        containers:
          - name: agent
            # These requests come from
            # docs/manifests/elastic-agent-managed-gke-autopilot.yaml
            # in https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent
            resources:
              requests:
                # cpu: 200m # Keep this commented. We dont set the cpu limit to avoid scheduling problems of agent in autopilot scenarios
                memory: 700Mi
              limits:
                # cpu: 200m # Keep this commented. We dont set the cpu limit to avoid scheduling problems of agent in autopilot scenarios
                memory: 700Mi
                ephemeral-storage: "500Mi"

>         serviceAccountName: elastic-agent

Author: This is why I hesitated to mention agent in these installation docs, as the steps to install/run it are rather large for this documentation; see https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/pull/6719/files#diff-4859960fe8ea6730af189e41297306b45dc4a3ce0ef12078ad74c5ce6626b975

>         serviceAccountName: elastic-agent

Reviewer 2: Plus one to removing the example and maybe link to a recipe. Even if it means waiting for that other PR. I would focus this documenation chapter on the material differences that a user has to be aware of to successfully deploy on Autopilot.

>         serviceAccountName: elastic-agent

Author: I've simply added the recipe to this PR, as #6719 is not required to run Agent within Autopilot.

:page_id: autopilot 
ifdef::env-github[]
****
link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/master/k8s-{page_id}.html[View this document on the Elastic website]
****
endif::[]
[id="{p}-{page_id}"]
= Deploy ECK on GKE Autopilot

This page shows how to run ECK on GKE Autopilot.

1. It is recommended that each Kubernetes host's virtual memory kernel settings be modified. Refer to <<{p}-virtual-memory>>.

> 2. It is recommended that Elasticsearch have an `initContainer` that waits for virtual memory settings to be in place. Refer to <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-elasticsearch>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. It is recommended that Elasticsearch Pods have an `initContainer` that waits for virtual memory settings to be in place. Refer to <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-elasticsearch>>.
```

3. For Elastic Agent/Beats there are storage limitations to be considered. Refer to <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-agent-beats>>

* <<{p}-autopilot-setting-virtual-memory>>
* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-the-operator>>
* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-elasticsearch>>
* <<{p}-autopilot-deploy-agent-beats>>

[id="{p}-autopilot-setting-virtual-memory"]
== Ensuring virtual memory kernel settings

If you are intending to run production workloads on GKE Autopilot then `vm.max_map_count` should be set. The recommended way to set this kernel setting on the Autopilot hosts is with a `Daemonset` as described in the <<{p}-virtual-memory>> section. You must be running at least version 1.25 when on the `regular` channel or using the `rapid` channel, which currently runs version 1.26.

CAUTION: Only use the provided `Daemonset` exactly as specified or it could be rejected by the Autopilot control plane.

[id="{p}-autopilot-deploy-the-operator"]
== Installing the ECK Operator

> . Refer to <<{p}-installing-eck>> for more information on installation options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to <<{p}-installing-eck>> for more information on installation options.
```

[source,shell,subs="attributes,+macros"]
----
cat $$<<$$EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: elasticsearch.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: Elasticsearch
metadata:
  name: elasticsearch-sample
spec:
  version: {version}
  nodeSets:
  - name: default
    count: 1
    # Only uncomment the below section if you are not using the Daemonset to set max_map_count.
    # config:
    #  node.store.allow_mmap: false
    podTemplate:
      spec:
        # This init container ensures that the `max_map_count` setting has been applied before starting Elasticsearch.
        # This is not required, but is encouraged when using the previously mentioned Daemonset to set max_map_count.
        # Do not use this if setting config.node.store.allow_mmap: false
        initContainers:
        - name: max-map-count-check
          command: ['sh', '-c', "while true; do mmc=$(cat /proc/sys/vm/max_map_count); if [ ${mmc} -eq 262144 ]; then exit 0; fi; sleep 1; done"]
EOF
----

[id="{p}-autopilot-deploy-agent-beats"]
== Deploy a standalone Elastic Agent and/or Beats

> When running Elastic Agent and Beats within GKE Autopilot there are storage constraints to be considered.
> 
> 1. No `HostPath` volumes are allowed, which the ECK operator defaults to when unset for both `Deployments` and `Daemonsets`. Instead use link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/ephemeral-volumes[Kubernetes ephemeral volumes].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running Elastic Agent and Beats within GKE Autopilot there are storage constraints to be considered. No `HostPath` volumes are allowed, which the ECK operator defaults to when unset for both `Deployments` and `Daemonsets`. Instead use link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/ephemeral-volumes[Kubernetes ephemeral volumes].
```
